SSO (#380)
neo4j/docs-aura: modules/ROOT/pages/platform/security/single-sign-on.adoc

label:AuraDB-Enterprise[]
label:AuraDS-Enterprise[]

== SSO levels

Aura admins can configure organization and tenant level SSO:

> . *Organization level SSO*: This configuration applies to all tenants and new database instances created within your organization.

Reviewer: This is kinda true, but its not super clear. It prevents access to the org in console, not access to the actual database instance via bolt or http api or similar. So it only affects doing actions within console such as listing instances/pausing instances, editing tenant/org settings, etc. It applies to everything related to the console under this org.

Since theres a bit of overlap between doing instance operations in the console vs access the instance directly, do you think it would be best to clarify in some way the difference when we talk about org sso affecting console org access, console tenant access, and console instance access, from tenant level sso which affects instance access via bolt or similar, but not console?

Author: . *Organization level SSO*:
Applies to everything related to the console within an organization. Grants console access for organization management, this includes editing organization and tenant settings, viewing the list of instances within tenants, and managing instances (such as pause/resume). However, it does not grant access to view or modify data within the database instances themselves.

Is that more on the right track? @sampsonbryce

Author: Awesome - and I'll add a line at the end: "Currently, role mapping is not applicable to Organization level SSO."

> . *Tenant level SSO*:  SSO configured at the tenant level affects all new database instances created within that tenant. It ensures users logging in with SSO have access to the authorized database instances within the tenant.

Reviewer: So tenant level sso is actually instance level sso, its just managed at the tenant level and applies to all instances within the tenant. Tenant/instance level sso (whichever name you wanna user for this one) gives access to "access to view or modify data within the database instances themselves". For this level, the role mapping may be used to grant users different levels of access based on a role in their IDP. 

Does that answer your question?

> . *Tenant level SSO*:  SSO configured at the tenant level affects all new database instances created within that tenant. It ensures users logging in with SSO have access to the authorized database instances within the tenant.

Reviewer: It does not. All permissions to do things in console are managed via console, not via SSO. But for being able to do things on the actual database, that can be managed by instance/tenant sso

> . *Tenant level SSO*:  SSO configured at the tenant level affects all new database instances created within that tenant. It ensures users logging in with SSO have access to the authorized database instances within the tenant.

Author: Thanks for all the info @sampsonbryce 
I have re-requested a review!

== Login methods

Admins can configure a combination of one or more of the following login methods:

* Email/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID

> * Google Sign-in

Reviewer: So these login methods are different for each sso level. 

Org sso supports:
- email/pw
- Google Social Login (not the customers own google workspace sso)
- Microsoft Entra ID
- Okta

Where as instance sso supports:
- user/pw
- Microsoft Entra ID
- Okta

However, at the instance level, you cannot disable user/pw but in org sso you can disable email/pw and google social login so long as you have at least one other custom sso provider configured

Author: What's the link to Google's landing page for the Google Social Login product?

Reviewer: I have no idea, couldn't find anything via a quick google search. Is there some specific information around the login you are looking for?

Author: I'd like to make sure I have the exact name for the Google feature - as far as I can see, there isn't a Google product called "Google Social Login"

Would it be correct to call it "SSO with Google" (Google Support call it that here and it sounds nice: https://support.google.com/a/answer/12032922?hl=en)

Reviewer: Sounds good for me, but probably something best to check with Aman, Johnny, and Elfreda if theyre happy with that. I know we've been calling Google Social Login internally for awhile. Otherwise SSO with Google sounds good.

Author: We're going to go with "Google SSO"

label:AuraDB-Enterprise[]
label:AuraDS-Enterprise[]

== SSO levels

> Aura admins can configure organization and tenant level SSO:

Reviewer: We have two admins, tenant and org admin. I don't think we ever define what an Aura admin is. This should probably just say Organization admins can configure...

> * *Organization level SSO:* Applies to everything related to the console within an organization. Grants console access for organization management, this includes editing organization and tenant settings, viewing the list of instances within tenants, and managing instances (such as pause/resume). However, it does not grant access to view or modify data within the database instances themselves. Currently, role mapping is not applicable to Organization level SSO.

Reviewer: > Grants console access for organization management, this includes editing organization and tenant settings, viewing the list of instances within tenants, and managing instances (such as pause/resume).

So this isn't really correct because just because you can login via SSO doesn't mean you have access to the org. You still have to be invited and the invitee will grant you a role when you are invited and that dictates if you can edit settings or view/manage instances. Basically org sso as it is today simple allows org admins to restrict how users login when they are trying to access the org. Everything else around access is managed via roles/invites.

> * *Instance level SSO:*  Affects all new database instances created within that tenant. It ensures users logging in with SSO have access to the database instances within the tenant. Instance level SSO gives access to to view or modify data within the database instances themselves. For this level, the role mapping may be used to grant users different levels of access based on a role in their IdP (it *does not* give access to edit the tenant settings e.g. edit the tenant name / network access, or edit the instance settings e.g. rename an instance / pause and resume).

Reviewer: > Instance level SSO gives access to to view or modify data within the database instances themselves

This is not true, it depends on the role mapping if they can actually view/modify data in the instance.

== Login methods

Login methods are different for each SSO level.
Admins can configure a combination of one or more of the login methods.

*Organization level SSO supports:*

* Email/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID
* Google SSO

> An organization's admin can add Aura as a login from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An organization's administrator can add Aura as a login from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.
```

label:AuraDB-Enterprise[]
label:AuraDS-Enterprise[]

== SSO levels

Organization admins can configure organization level SSO (org SSO) and tenant level SSO (tenant SSO). 
SSO is simply a log-in method and all access/roles/permissions are dictated by RBAC.

> * *Org SSO:* Just because you can login via org SSO doesn't mean you have access to the org. 
> You still have to be invited and the invitee will grant you a role when you are invited and that dictates if you can edit settings or view/manage instances. 
> Org SSO allows org admins to restrict how users login when they are trying to access the org. 
> Everything else around access is managed via roles (RBAC) and invites.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Org SSO:* Allows org admins to restrict how users log in when they are trying to access the org. 
Access beyond login is managed via RBAC.
```

> * *Tenant level SSO:*  Impacts new database instances created within that tenant. It ensures users logging in with SSO have access to the database instances within the tenant. It depends on RBAC if the user can access and view or modify data within the database instances themselves. For this level, the role mapping may be used to grant users different levels of access based on a role in their IdP (it *does not* give access to edit the tenant settings e.g. edit the tenant name / network access, or edit the instance settings e.g. rename an instance / pause and resume).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *Tenant level SSO:*  Impacts new database instances created within that tenant. 
It ensures users logging in with SSO have access to the database instances within the tenant. 
It depends on RBAC if the user can access and view or modify data within the database instances themselves. 
For this level, the role mapping may be used to grant users different levels of access based on a role in their IdP (it *does not* give access to edit the tenant settings e.g. edit the tenant name / network access, or edit the instance settings e.g. rename an instance / pause and resume).
```

== Login methods

Login methods are different for each SSO level.
Administrators can configure a combination of one or more of the login methods.

*Organization level SSO supports:*

* Email/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID
* Google SSO

An organization's administrator can add Aura as a login from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.

> *Instance level SSO supports:*

Reviewer 2: This level has not been mentioned before. Above you list two levels, org and tenant. Is instance-level different from tenant?

* User/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID

However, at the instance level you cannot disable user/password, but at the organization level you can disable email/password and Google SSO as long as you have at least one other custom SSO provider configured.

== Setup requirements

Accessing Aura with SSO requires:
 
* Authorization Code Flow
* A publicly accessible Identity Provider (IdP) server

To configure SSO, go to *Aura Console > Settings > SSO Configuration.*

To create a SSO Configuration either a Discovery URI or a combination of Issuer, Authorization Endpoint, Token Endpoint and JWKS URI is required.

== Individual instance level SSO configurations available from Support

Support can assist with:

* Role mapping specific to a database instance
* Custom groups claim besides `groups`
* Updating SSO on already running instances

> If you would like support assistance, please https://support.neo4j.com/[raise a support ticket] including the following information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you require support assistance, visit link:https://support.neo4j.com/[Customer Support] and raise a support ticket including the following information:
```

> . The _Tenant ID_ of the tenant(s) you want to use SSO. See xref:platform/user-management.adoc#_tenants[Tenants] for more information on how to find your __Tenant ID__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. The _Tenant ID_ of the tenant(s) you want to use SSO for. 
See xref:platform/user-management.adoc#_tenants[Tenants] for more information on how to find your __Tenant ID__.
```

label:AuraDB-Enterprise[]
label:AuraDS-Enterprise[]

== SSO levels

Organization admins can configure organization level SSO (org SSO) and tenant level SSO (tenant SSO). 

> SSO is simply a log-in method and access, roles, and permissions are dictated by role-based access control (RBAC).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SSO is a log-in method and access, roles, and permissions are dictated by role-based access control (RBAC).
```

Reviewer 2: Avoid the word _simple_ and all derivatives as it is too subjective.

* *Org SSO:* Allows org admins to restrict how users log in when they are trying to access the org. 
Access beyond login is managed via RBAC.

* *Tenant level SSO:*  Impacts new database instances created within that tenant. 
It ensures users logging in with SSO have access to the database instances within the tenant. 
It depends on RBAC if the user can access and view or modify data within the database instances themselves. 

> For this level, the role mapping may be used to grant users different levels of access based on a role in their IdP (it *does not* give access to edit the tenant settings e.g. edit the tenant name / network access, or edit the instance settings e.g. rename an instance / pause and resume).

Reviewer: :pray: sounds great!

> For this level, the role mapping may be used to grant users different levels of access based on a role in their IdP (it *does not* give access to edit the tenant settings e.g. edit the tenant name / network access, or edit the instance settings e.g. rename an instance / pause and resume).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this level, the role mapping may be used to grant users different levels of access based on a role in their identity provider, IdP, (it *does not* give access to edit the tenant settings e.g. edit the tenant name / network access, or edit the instance settings e.g. rename an instance / pause and resume).
```

Reviewer 2: First mention on the page, it's nice to spell out the initialism.

== Login methods

Login methods are different for each SSO level.
Administrators can configure a combination of one or more of the login methods.

*Organization level SSO supports:*

* Email/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID

> * Google SSO

Reviewer: I wonder if we should clarify that this does not mean bringing your own google sso from google workspace or something?

An organization's administrator can add Aura as a login from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.

*Tenant level SSO supports:*

* User/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID

> However, at the instance level you cannot disable user/password, but at the organization level you can disable email/password and Google SSO as long as you have at least one other custom SSO provider configured.

Reviewer 2: Here's another instance of _instance level_.

Author: thanks, good spot

== Setup requirements

Accessing Aura with SSO requires:
 
* Authorization Code Flow

> * A publicly accessible Identity Provider (IdP) server

Reviewer 2: Since it's spelled out above, you can just use IdP here, if you want.
